Getting as Judge and jury, even as there is
Bonnany Court where litigation takes place,
that insiphas possible the convenience
of the litigation's revispective,
but wherever they are immobile and lies,
that inconvenience be terminated as quickly as possible.
That is any participant feels that he's in jeopardy in any way
that that jeopardy be resolved as quickly as possible.
And so here is elsewhere, I think this motion is not only an audit,
but I think it is a duty in responsibility,
this committee is to be in judgment, to take common control,
and to relieve any participate.
On left there has been testimony and proved somewhere along the line
that were the indicate out of office.
Now thus far Mr. Channam, where has been no proof,
just sustained the charge against Mr. Hinton,
and I think this committee is almost in duty by,
under the circumstances, and in the interest of expeditions
to support this motion to start.
And with respect to Mr. Channam, his name has been used very freely
all through these hearings about the only thing
in derogation of Mr. Channam that I gleam from the long testimony
by Mr. Adams becomes more to the Army well,
that by his silence he may have given consent.
That's entirely on the negative side, Mr. Channam,
and not on the affirmative side.
And in the circumstances, I do not believe it's fair
that we have overrides Mr. Channam any longer,
and keep him from his regular duties if he wants to repair to them.
And on the basis of the record thus far,
and it's a pretty long record, there has been no proof
to sustain the charges, and I think the motion to strike
is imminently in order, and that it ought to be sustained.
And that in fairness to these participants,
we now say instead of waiting for the long interim period
when a report will be filed, that insofar as these two participants
are concerned that their identity
would be proceeding be concluded for it with,
I think the motion should be sustained.
All of them are in for a set of action.
May I inquire on the chair?
To who have had the response of the case
has been presented from the time they're hearing
started up until now?
Until now, we have been presenting the file of the case
represented by the charges made by Secretary of the Army Stevens
and by Mr. Adams.
And the case has been organized and presented to us
under the direction of Mr. Welch and Mr. St. Pratt.
A further parliamentary inquiry.
Did the Army, as there's a record show based on the complaint file
here in the pleadings, so to speak, if we may use that term?
Is there anything in the pleadings which indicate that the Army
got charges against Mr. Hempel,
parliamentary inquiry?
Not to the best recollection of the check.
Mr. Chairman, I ask for the parliamentary inquiry on what theory,
not a legal theory, but on a theory of common sense.
What a motion lie to dismiss charges against someone who has
not been called upon to offer proof.
The chair is persuaded by the arguments presented by
Senator Dvoysach and Mr. Dirkson in connection with the general
overall picture which we now confront.
To which, on two different occasions,
motions were made which, as part of their context,
would have stripping from the record the charges
made against Mr. Hempel.
At that time, the chair was around the triangle to determine
whether in the opinion of either Mr. Hempel and his council,
or Senator McCarthy's associates and himself.
There was anything unreasonable or unfair or unjust
about that portion of the context of the proposal.
At that time, on three different occasions, both of those parties
said that it would be agreeable with them.
The chair did not vote for those proposals, however,
because when he got around to the third part of the triangle
and asked the same kind of questions of Mr. Stevens and his council,
they said that as far as their position was concerned,
and as far as the Stevens Adams portion of the case was concerned,
they felt it was not proper and not fair and not just.
Consequently, the chair voted against the motion,
not because it included Mr. Hempel, but or Mr. Carr,
but because it included Mr. Adams and Mr. Stevens,
and because they felt that it was not a proper procedure.
However, there was a different situation which now confronts us
because Mr. Adams and Mr. Stevens have had a complete
opportunity to present their case.
The chair feels that Mr. Chairman,
if I may just be monitoring to your particular point,
if you'll be patient.
I'd like to...
The chair feels that, as far as Mr. Carr is concerned,
all of the evidence that they have to present has been presented
because their witnesses have all been arraigned before this commission.
And the chair...
And Mr. Hempel is concerned.
What was the interruptions?
Mr. Chairman, I just really made the point that I did not direct my parliamentary inquiry to the minister.
I understand.
Mr. Hempel, the motion has too much.
And the chair feels as far as Mr. Hempel is concerned
that the situation which confronted us at the time the original charges were made
has been altered substantially by the course of the testimony,
by the evidence which has been introduced up to this time,
by the fact that on two previous occasions, both Mr. Hempel's counsel
and the McCarthy side of the position have agreed,
disdiking that part from the case,
and furthermore, and perhaps most importantly,
by the issuance of the executive order,
which is going to make much more difficult, certainly,
finding out those pertinent questions about the testimony of Mr. Hempel,
then would have otherwise had done the case.
So the chair would say, as far as his own particular goal is concerned,
that if Mr. Hempel and his counsel and Mr. McHathie and his associate
are of the same opinion now that they were on the two previous occasions,
he would, of course, both distract them from the record,
something which neither side cared to project into it,
and consequently delay the conduct of these hearings enormously and unmetheaterally.
Well, Mr. Chairman, I just want to conclude by saying that I know
of nothing in the executive order that prevents the offering of proof
based on the charges filed against Mr. Hempel.
What part of the executive order would present that?
I refer to the part which concludes any possibility of discussing any of the transactions
occurring at the meeting on January 21.
Well, what the committee has previously decided unanimously
that the only portion of the Hempel charge which we could appropriate
is to consider it as a portion dealing with mortgages.
And the mortgages phase has been obscured by the fact that there are other meetings,
other discussions dealing with mortgages,
in which we are not permitted by the executive order to inquire.
Well, Mr. Hempel has sent the file that the meeting in January 21st had nothing to do with it.
I'm at a total loss on all the time, and Mr. Hempel is at that meeting.
Well, nobody, he has testified as to who brought the initiated the charges.
And I must compare that if this theory has followed through its logical conclusion,
and it does come in sense, then logically the charges that Mr. Cohn,
Senator McCarthy, have made against the other parties' motion to dismiss those charges
would lie because no proof is been offered up to this point.
Mr. Chairman, am I interrupting the discussions with the learned senators?
If I am, I do have a thought that everything that you are will be happy to have you interrupt.
So, right here, Senator Jackson has raised a question about what basis there is
for dismissal of the charges at this time against Mr. Hempel.
As a matter of fact, the motion that was made by Senator DeVoljert,
in my judgment, is entirely proper, and to me and to my client,
if it were passed at this time and properly passed at this time,
would constitute a wholly justified vindication of my client in these proceedings.
Mr. Hempel, now the fact is that in any judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding of this case,
as the proof develops, if the proof as it develops,
shows that any given set of charges against a topic were unbound and without basis,
then it becomes the duty of anybody to issue or quasi-judicial at that point
in the proceedings to dismiss those charges.
That point in my judgment has now plainly been reached.
I will not review the testimony in detail except inside that witness after witness on this stand has made it perfectly plain,
that the two charges which were in any way lower to these proceedings,
namely, that Mr. Hempel for some motive, tried to stop the proceedings of this subcommittee
have been affirmatively disproven right now, and since those charges have been affirmatively disproven,
it seems to me that in all justice and balance,
neither Mr. Hempel nor his counsel should be kept sitting around in these proceedings,
as they talk with this sort of threat hanging over their heads.
I may say in addition to that, Mr. Johnson.
In addition to that, I distinguish between a judicial and a quasi-judicial proceeding such as this,
in a proceeding of this character, where you have not the normal protections afforded by a court of law,
it is even more important to a citizen and a party and a distinguished public official,
that the charges against him be disclosed of as rapidly as possibly can be,
and that if his vindication comes, it comes fairly in sweat before the American public.
That point, as I say, has been reached not alone by failure proof,
and we know there is no proof in support of these charges,
but also by a firmety proof to the contract,
and that's why I would urge you to form this committee and upon its learning channel,
that this motion ought to be granted in all justice and fairness to Mr. Hempel right now and for his vindication.
Now may I say one other thing?
Senator Goyce's motion was coupled with a statement that Mr. Hempel will be excused as he wishes.
What or not, that's the grant, in whole or in part by this subcommittee at this time.
I want to say, and Mr. Hempel's behalf, that he is always ready and willing to appear at the behest of this subcommittee at any time
to give it any information which will throw any light that might be thrown upon the controversy presently before.
He sees no need to appear as a witness to dispose of unproven charges or charges that were proven to be unproven,
but he is still available as a witness to this committee and will be at any time and let there be no doubt of that.
I may say one final thing with regard to my client, and after all, Mr. Chairman,
I have remained silent as you will confess for a very long time here and may be have just a little opportunity to speak.
Mr. Hempel was given by this nation the second highest decorations in its power to give.
The distinguished service model. He was given that medal for a very highly maristory service to his country,
during the Second World War as a system secretary of the Navy and in other high capacities in that department.
He has come down to this capital of the nation again to serve his country as great personal sacrifice and his presence in days in matters of the highest importance to the nation.
Now if public affairs against home charges are loving or not vindicated when they can be vindicated at the earliest opportunity,
my mind is a deterrent to men of ability and character who desire to serve their country.
I call upon this committee and ask this committee to grant this motion right here and now.
Anybody else ready to be heard?
Yes, sir.
Uh, Benjamin Conn.
I have witnessed some peculiar proceedings in my lifetime.
One never before I have I witnessed charges gone.
And then somebody moved to a business of the poor, the men of the person who made the charges was given an opportunity to testify.
This would be one of the grossest reflections upon those who made the charges.
For this committee at this stage of the proceedings, in this list of charges they call it a beat.
Can't amount the saying to Senator McCarthy and Mr. Cohn that your charges were baseless.
That they were an imposition of the this committee and upon the country and that they are a responsible.
If you want to place that stigma on the Senator McCarthy and upon the Mr. Cohn you may do so.
But so far as I have concerned we're going to get the food or the charges be withdrawn by those who made them and I shall pull against the motion.
And, gentlemen, I'm getting the directions.
It occurs to me that we have ventilated this matter long enough.
First of all, it should be said that it has been brewed about and discussed in some of the executive sessions that we had.
And I think Mr. Bryan will bear that out.
I think the testimony discloses that Mr. Hensel had only an incidental relationship to the proceedings as far.
And insofar as that portion of the charges concerned that goes back to 1944, I am frank to say that I have conferred with counsel and counsel what field is posed to object.
If anything relating to those charges that goes back ten years might be introduced in evidence.
Under the circumstances there is nothing unusual or extraordinary about this proceeding.
This is regular in evidence back.
And I think it does justice to two principles in the case Mr. Carl and Mr. Hensel.
And I suggest now Mr. Chavez that we vote on the matter because it's a responsibility individually for every member of this committee.
Mr. Hammond?
I give you a top senator's time and you haven't spoken.
Have you addressed the chair?
I've heard you've been a Jackson but I'm taking him to the office.
First I would like to ask the counsel for Mr. Hensel or Senator McCartney have the charges against Mr. Hensel been withdrawn.
Are you asking out of me?
Senator?
I would ask that either of you or Senator McCartney.
Or for for all.
As far as I know, Mr. Chavez, my arguments have been directed to a motion pending before this committee.
My question is a very simple question Mr. Bryan.
I think you're perhaps on the answer from me.
I would like to have it from somebody.
I think perhaps the most nice answer that.
I may not say that nothing has been withdrawn.
However, I have taken the position of since the presidential directive ordering certain people who perhaps they meetings which the machinery of a certain motion for these mere charges.
Which resulted in this show since the president decided that they couldn't talk.
I just feel we never will get the facts in the matter.
It never can get the truth of Mr. Hensel will be forbidden to testify in that directive.
And anything the committee can do to cut down the links of this so we can get back to our work.
And they want to do to eliminate two witnesses.
The eliminate days of testimony will not be affected to by me.
I've got one objective now.
Now that we know we can never get all the facts in order to get the show off the road.
As soon as we can get back to our work and exposing the joint.
How many of us were in this moment in dangerous positions?
Now that the chairman I would like to make this observation about the question of Mr. Hensel.
I have known him a long time.
He is in a position of great authority in the Department of Defense of the United States.
As I understand what Madam Maclady has said, these great charges are not being withdrawn.
Except for the fact that the president of the United States has issued an directive which makes it impossible to get the truth.
I don't see how that could be known until and unless Mr. Hensel defended these charges.
In his position, he probably has as much more to say in the Department of Defense.
Which incidentally is not the Department of the Army.
For respect to the spending of billions and billions of dollars.
And it's been said and I believe with complete justification that a public office
is a public trust.
He was appointed by the President of the United States to this high office.
I have no reason to think that he is guilty in any way of the charges that have been made against him.
But I joined with my colleagues.
That's a dismissive charges at this time and leave this man in as the number one legal man in the defense department of the United States.
Where everybody is looking for corruption and problems and lead hanging over him these charges.
To me is just unbelievable.
And I regret that apparently it is going to be decided on a straight four to three vote.
I would hope that the members of the majority party of this committee consider the position
in which they are leaving Santa McCarthy because he made the charges and once the truth.
And Mr. Hensel, because from this day on he will operate on the basis of the charges that were made and were dismissed before he was even given the opportunity to answer them.
Mr. President, Mr. Brown, the learning senator from Missouri has just advanced what to me is one of the most extraordinary theories
that I have ever heard advanced in an American public hearing.
That theory is apparent that when charges are made against someone and those charges are unsubstantiated,
he has the purpose of proving himself innocent.
That's the new one to me.
For over a thousand years of Anglo-Saxle war, we have proceeded on the theory that a man was innocent until proof was brought forward that he was guilty.
I cannot believe the decision from Missouri really meant to invent any such theory before the American people.
The whole point of this motion is that affirmative proof has been brought forward that Mr. Hensel had nothing to do with this situation and should never have been brought in and second of all.
But apparently there is going to be no full offer in substantiation of the charges and a keeper man in this situation in what might be called public jeopardy under such circumstance and to make statements which might affect his probality.
I think he is unworth in such a form as this or before the American people.
Mr. Brown, I would like to continue the comment we just to this extent.
I deeply regret having shocked this eminent counsel and delightful gentleman from New York.
I want to say that in turn he has deeply shocked me and I hope when I'm ever represented by a counsel in the minutes that the counsel agrees to give me a chance to prove my innocence before the people.
Mr. Chairman, I'll be very grateful.
May I just say this to Mr. Brown that while I may not have the best knowledge of the law, I must say that I have never heard of a doctrine advanced in all the years that I've lived.
That would prevent an individual who has a case to make to prevent that individual from being heard.
I will not vote for a motion that will deny to any party.